To put an end to racial bias that exist in the United States Education System, the Supreme Court issued two historic rulings On June 23, 2003, In Grutter v. Bollinger et al. and Gratz et al. v. Bollinger et al., in which the Court found that race can be considered as a factor in higher education admissions if it is not used mechanically. These rulings offer the promise of continued and perhaps increasing racial and ethnic diversity at our nation’s top colleges and universities. While the two rulings were major victories for supporters of diversity, each is only a means to an end. The primary goal has never been intended to bring diverse cohorts into colleges and universities. The ultimate goal is a necessary but fail to establish sufficient conditions to educate and graduate students of all races and ethnicities at similar rates, which has always been the main objective. To achieve the main goal, we must increase the number of minority students who are ready to attend college dramatically. In addition, racial and ethnic gaps in college performance and completion must be closed.
Racial and ethnic disparities among college students seems to be a topic that has been greatly neglected by authorities compared to racial disparities in academic success among children and adolescents where numerous studies have been conducted. Recent data released by the National Center for Education Statistics revealed evidence of the need to focus on college completion. The data report six‐year graduation rates of 71% for Asian Americans, 67% for whites, 47%for Latinos, and 46% for African Americans. Graduation rates are substantially higher at selective colleges and universities, but the graduation rates for African Americans came short compared to other ethnic groups. Data collected for a six-year graduation rate in 1989 for students that entered cohort programs at 28 selective schools revealed a 96% graduation rate for Asian Americans, 94% for whites, 90% for Latinos, and 79% for African Americans. Again, African Americans students finished last. These data are disturbing racial and ethnic disparities in college completion for minority students that can contribute to dissatisfaction with their college experiences compared to Asian and White students. The presence of graduation disappointment in minority students makes them less likely to say that they would recommend their college or university to prospective students who are like themselves found in a study. 
This is very alarming, so government and public-school officials should address these major concerns because data has revealed that black and brown skin people accounted for a lower share of college graduation than their share of enrollment in several research that reported data. Also, black folks accounted for a lower share of college enrollment than their share of the total population in several different colleges and universities nationally. Therefore, it is imperative to urgently take necessary measures to address and mitigate the effects of racial and ethnic disparities in our higher education enrollment system. This project shows the trends in college enrollees at the State University of New York by race and ethnicity and displays the proportion of enrollees for each race and ethnicity.
